.TH XMPPCONSOLE 1 "2020-10-01" "XMPP Console"
.SH NAME
xmppconsole \- a tool for XMPP hackers.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B xmppconsole
[OPTIONS]... <JID> [PASSWORD]
.SH DESCRIPTION
xmppconsole is a tool which creates an XMPP connection and allows user to send
raw XMPP stanzas over the connection.
.IR JID
may contain resource part or consist of domain part only.
.IR JID
must be a domain for the anonymous authentication.
.IR PASSWORD
is not required for the anonymous authentication or if
.IR \-n
option is set.
In other cases, if the
.IR PASSWORD
is not provided, a dialog will appear to type it.
.PP
Main goal of the tool is to help in debugging of XMPP entities and studying
XMPP.
.PP
xmppconsole has support of multiple text and graphical UIs.
Therefore, it can work on both desktops and servers.
.PP
xmppconsole has multiple options how to establish TLS session, authenticate or
connect without authentication.
User can perform manual authentication or register user with in-band
registration.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI "\-\-help"
Show help.
.TP
.BI "\-h, \-\-host="HOST
Connect to the
.IR HOST
instead of resolving SRV record of the domain.
.TP
.BI "\-p, \-\-port="PORT
Override default port number.
.TP
.BI "\-n, \-\-noauth"
Don't authenticate after receiving features stanza.
In this mode user can perform manual authentication or register a user with
in-band registration.
.TP
.BI "\-t, \-\-trust-tls-cert"
Trust invalid TLS certificates.
This option allows to establish TLS session with a server which has TLS
misconfigured.
This option can be helpful if TLS is required by the server.
However, in this case TLS can't guarantee protection.
.TP
.BI "\-\-disable-tls"
Don't establish TLS session.
This can be helpful for capturing traffic with packet sniffers.
Note, server may require TLS in order to allow authentication.
.TP
.BI "\-\-legacy-ssl"
Connect without STARTTLS.
In this mode xmppconsole establishes TLS session just after establishing TCP
connection.
.TP
.BI "\-\-legacy-auth"
Allow legacy authentication.
It is disabled by default.
.TP
.BI "\-u, \-\-ui="NAME
Use specific UI.
By default, xmppconsole chooses graphical interface if possible and falls back
to a text interface otherwise.
Some interfaces are optional and may not be built.
Refer to --help to see which UIs are currently available.
.TP
.BI "\-v, \-\-verbose"
Print debug logs to terminal.
This option can't be enabled for text-based interfaces.
.SH BUGS
Please, report bugs to the GitHub issue tracker: <https://github.com/pasis/xmppconsole/issues>
.SH AUTHOR
xmppconsole has been written by Dmitry Podgorny <pasis.ua@gmail.com>.
.SH COPYRIGHT
Copyright (C) 2020 Dmitry Podgorny <pasis.ua@gmail.com>.
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>
This is free software; you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
